+++
date = "2017-01-08T09:00:00+08:00"
draft = false
tags = ["", ""]
title = "The Problem with Audiobooks"
+++

Audiobooks, in theory, are a great idea: have somebody read the thing you were
going to read to yourself out loud, and you can listen to it while doing
something else, like cooking, cleaning, etc.

This is the passive version of reading: information flows from the text into
your brain, with no interruptions, and not requiring a lot of engagement from
the reader. That, however, is not how _I_ read.

When I read, I jump around. A lot. When I realise that the paragraph I am
reading can be skipped, I do so. When I am confused, I jump back. I skim, jump
forward, reread, jump back, pause to process the information, and much more.

Listening to the first 3 hours of _Guns, Germs, and Steel_, and then reading the
second half, just made me realise how much I _skip_ while reading a book, and
how much I go back and reread, with pauses along the way to think about the
author's arguments and see if they make sense.

I consume all media at 2-4x speed, depending on the thing in question, and this
book is no different. Most of the time, at 3x speed, the narrator is speaking at
a comfortable pace for me. However, I have to listen to him read the parts that
I would have skipped, which makes me stop paying attention and leaves me
confused when I inevitably start paying attention, only to find the narrator
somewhere completely new.

Pausing is also a pain with audiobooks. For most of the books I read, which are
mostly the author trying to present an argument, which, at a glance, is about
three quarters of my reading list, I need to pause frequently and think about
the author's argument, and let myself have some time to digest it. The set pace
of narration destroys my frequent reflections, and I have found that after 1
hour of GGS, or 3 hours into the book, I felt myself not really _understanding_
the argument being presented. The last half of the book took me an hour to read,
which tells me that it's not the _speed_ that's the problem, it's the _manner_
of information digestion.

All of this is to say that my time with audiobooks have ended; I will never
again listen to audiobooks, for they do not accomplish the goal of reading books
in the first place: to understand the author's argument and decide if it is
valid. Reading words on a paper remains the only way to do so for now.
