+++
date = "2016-11-02T22:49:00+08:00"
draft = false
tags = ["", ""]
title = "MUN - The Game of Politics"
+++

There has recently been talk amongst the school about starting a Model United
Nations programme. As perhaps the only person at the school that has any
experience with this area, I feel an obligation to chime in and give my two
cents.

First and foremost, you must know what MUN is _not_. It is _not_ a chance to
debate policy. It is _not_ a simulation of the actual UN sitting in NYC. It is
_not_ a forum where people come together to have intellectual discussions on
pressing political issues.

What MUN _is_, however, is a place where you get to practise your skills in
_politics_. It is a forum where you see how the house of cards that is politics
play out. This is where, if you are observant, you learn the skills that will
aid you in becoming a good politician: behind-the-scenes bargaining, mass-
persuasion, power blocs, identification of the keys figures and negotiating with
them, speeches that persuade by _words_, not logic, and so much more.

If you are going to MUN to hone your debating skills, turn back now. That is the
last thing that you will find. MUN is a byzantine collection of rules and
tradition that is in no way conducive of debates. You, if you have points to
make and arguments to rebut, will find yourself unable to do either. MUN is
_not_ a forum of debate. You must get your talking done _through other people_,
which is where the game of politics comes into play.

If you are going to MUN to see what the actual UN is like, you too should turn
back now. Just compare footage of the UN General Assembly meetings with any MUN
footage you can find. Those two things are not the same. The actual UN's goal is
_not_ to pass more resolutions since they all know that those don't do anything.
However, passing resolutions _is_ the ultimate goal for a MUN conference; and
because of that, the structure and politics of these two organisations play out
very differently.

Let's talk about what happens in a MUN conference. As I said, the ultimate goal
here is to pass resolutions. To do that, you need a majority vote (unlike the UN
where most resolutions are passed by consensus), and to get those votes,
politics needs to happen.

The primary way of changing people's mind on voting for or against your
resolution is speeches. A person goes up to the podium, gives a speech, and
answers some questions. However, one man cannot pass resolutions alone. The
chair won't let you speak that many times. This is why I said that you need to
speak _through other people_.

This is where all that politics that I talked about comes into play: some people
are better persuaders than others. These are the individuals that have the
ability to sway many voters to their side. These are the individuals that give
95% of the speeches, ask the majority of questions, and exert the most influence
over their mindless peers.

If you are observant, you will see these persuaders forming alliances early in
the conference. Some are not aware that they are doing so, due to their innate
ability to play the game of politics, but some are much more deliberate, like
me. These alliances are not formal: most times, there isn't even a verbal
agreement. It's a non-explicit mutual understanding that, instead of doing their
best to bring you down, they will assist or at the very least not actively
hinder you in passing your resolution.

In MUN, most voters are merely mindless automatons. They are passive agents, a
pawn in the game of Chess the select few persuaders are playing. Ask any
experienced MUN-er about their experience at MUN, at the first thing you will
find out is that 10% of the speakers give 90% of the speeches and hold 99% of
the power. Most voters do not evaluate the merits of both sides of the
resolution and vote by the rules of logic; most are bound by the limits of human
psychology and act accordingly. You win votes by _sounding_ right, not by
_being_ right. Of course, in order to fight the battle with other persuaders,
logic is a tool that can make your opponent _sound_ like they don't know what
they are doing. Here lies the most important distinction: logic is not _itself_
the component that persuades, it is the _illusion_ it gives of authority and
correctness that persuades. Logic doesn't persuade, _words_ persuade.

The mindless automaton theory only applies to large committees, in smaller
committees, where schools send their veterans, the tools of persuasion no longer
applies, which in turn increases the importance of alliances and politics.
However, as a newcomer, your chances of making it into the smaller elite
committees are close to nil, mainly due to your lack of political experience, so
you need not concern yourself with them for now.

If you find yourself disgusted at the nature of human psychology and the game of
politics, MUN will not suit you well, unless you intend on playing the part of
the mindless automaton. If you think you will enjoy the mindless automaton
experience, by all means, join MUN. If you can, try to pay attention to the game
of politics and intrigue that is playing out around you; it may become useful if
you decide to try playing the game.

If you find yourself excited at the idea of weaving political webs and playing
the game of persuasion, MUN will suit you well. Once you see MUN for what it
really is, instead of what it claims to be, it will become a very enjoyable
experience. There is no thrill like realising that your plan to use the tools of
persuasion actually sways others to your banner. In that case, I wish you the
very best. Enjoy your time with the politics of MUN.
